# Questions To Ask After Interview
<h4>List of Questions</h4><p><strong style="">Below is a list of questions grouped by topic that you should consider asking after your interview. There&#039;s a lot here, so choose carefully which you should ask.</strong></p><h4>Engineering practices</h4><ul style=""><li>What version control system do you use?</li><li>Do you test your code?</li><li>How do you make sure that all code is understood by more than one person?</li><li>Do you do code review? Does all code get reviewed?</li><li>Do you have an issue tracker?</li><li>Describe your deployment process – how do you find bugs in your team’s code? What recourse do you have when you find a serious bug in production code?</li><li>Who is responsible for doing deployment? How often do you deploy?</li><li>How do you think about code correctness?</li><li>When something goes wrong, how do you handle it? Do devs get shamed for breaking the build?</li><li>How/when do developers talk to non-developers? Is it easy to talk to the people who are will be using your product?</li><li>Can I see some code the team I’m interviewing for has written? (from an open-source project you work on, for example)</li><li>Who are the people at your company with a lot of depth of experience? Will I be able to talk to them?</li><li>What’s your approach to technical debt?</li></ul><h4>Management style</h4><ul style=""><li>How does engineering work get assigned?</li><li>How are technical decisions made and communicated?</li><li>How do you balance support work and feature development?</li><li>Can you give me an example of someone who’s been in a technical role at your company for a long time, and how their responsibilities and role have changed? </li><li>Do you have a dedicated designer? QA? Technical writer? Dev manager?</li><li>How often do you have meetings? Are there any scheduled/standing meetings? Who talks to customers (if appropriate) and how?</li><li>Has there been a situation where someone raised an ethical concern? If so, how was it handled? If not, have there really not been any?</li><li>How are decisions made? Is architecture dictated top down? Are ideas from anyone welcomed? If so, in what scope/context?</li><li>How are disagreements solved - both technical disagreements and other kinds? What happens when personalities clash?</li><li>Can you tell me about a time when you’ve had to let someone go?</li><li>Is there a written roadmap all developers can see? How far into the future does it extend? How closely is it followed?</li><li>How is performance evaluated?</li></ul><h4>Quality of life</h4><ul style=""><li>How much vacation do people get? If there’s “unlimited” vacation, how much vacation do people normally take?</li><li>Is it possible to take sabbaticals or unpaid vacation?</li><li>How many women work for you? What’s your process for making sure you have diversity in other ways?</li><li>How many hours do people work in an average week? In your busiest weeks?</li><li>Is variability tolerated or is everyone expected to be on the same schedule?</li><li>What time do people normally leave work?</li><li>Would I need to be on call? How often?</li><li>How often are there emergencies or times when people have to work extra hours?</li><li>What is your turnover rate like? How many devs were hired last year and how many left?</li><li>What’s your retention rate of women over 1.5 years? Do you think you could’ve done anything differently to keep people who left?</li><li>Do people work on the weekend?</li><li>Do people check in when they’re on vacation? How often?</li><li>Is it possible to work from home, say, 1 or 2 days a week? Does anyone do this? (can be a nice option to have)</li><li>Does this position require travel? How often?</li></ul><p>As many of these as possible are “statistical” questions – a company may say that they “don’t have hours”, but if everyone leaves at 9pm that’s not a good sign.</p><h4>Community involvement</h4><ul style=""><li>Do you contribute to open source projects? Which projects? Which teams work on open source? Do you work mostly in the community or do you have a private fork?</li><li>Do your employees speak at conferences about your work?</li></ul><h4>Career development</h4><ul style=""><li>Are employees encouraged to go speak at conferences?</li><li>Do you cover travel to conferences? How many conferences a year do devs typically go to?</li><li>Does your company support continuing education? (will they pay for employees to do a master’s degree?)</li><li>In what other ways do you support career development?</li></ul><h4>Culture</h4><ul style=""><li>How do you determine if someone is a poor fit for your company?</li><li>How are your teams structured? What is the management structure like?</li><li>How often do you pair? What’s pairing like? How often do inexperienced people work directly with experienced people?</li><li>What’s the onboarding process like?</li><li>Is there any sort of institutionalized way of dealing with plateauing or preventing burnout? (Expecting to hear about rotation of duties or location, sabbaticals.)</li><li>Is it easy to move to other divisions or offices?</li><li>How does internal communication work? This one is super important and I need to remember to ask it more.</li><li>Are there catered suppers? (possibly bad)</li><li>How many hours a week does senior management work? Do they put in 80-hour weeks?</li></ul><h4>Financials/business model/growth</h4><ul style=""><li>Are you profitable?<ul style=""><li>if not, how does this affect what you can do? What’s your planned timeline for becoming profitable?</li></ul></li><li>How do you make money?</li><li>How much are you planning to hire in the next year?</li><li>Are company financials, minus salaries, transparent throughout the company?</li></ul><h4>Things to look for in real life</h4><ul style=""><li>How is the office space physically organized?</li></ul><h4>Other</h4><ul style=""><li>Can you tell me about how the interview process is structured? How many interviews are there?</li><li>How often do you offer above asking? Can I speak with someone who got such an offer?</li><li>What do you wish you had known when you joined this company?</li><li>Why did you choose to join this company?</li><li>What’s the single biggest issue or problem facing the team/department/company?” What’s currently being done to address it?</li></ul>
